feat: blog about html-eslint (#726)
eslint/eslint.org: src/content/drafts/eslint-html-plugin.md

---
layout: post

> title: html-eslint now supports ESLint language plugin

Reviewer: How about this to make it a bit more ESLint-centric?
```suggestion
title: ESLint can now lint HTML using the html-eslint language plugin
```

teaser: "Bringing HTML linting to ESLint’s new language-agnostic system."
tags:
  - Open Source
  - Linting
  - Parsing
authors:
  - yeonjuan
categories:
  - Announcements
---

In 2024, [ESLint announced](/blog/2024/07/whats-coming-next-for-eslint/) its plan to become a language-agnostic linter that is capable of linting languages other than JavaScript.

> Since then, we've seen official support added for JSON, Markdown, and most recently, CSS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since then, we've seen official support added for [JSON and Markdown](https://eslint.org/blog/2024/10/eslint-json-markdown-support/), and most recently, [CSS](https://eslint.org/blog/2025/02/eslint-css-support/).
```

> Today, I'm excited to share that [html-eslint](https://html-eslint.org) now supports ESLint's language plugin for HTML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today, I'm excited to share that [html-eslint](https://html-eslint.org) now provides an ESLint language plugin for linting HTML.
```

> ## HTML linting with `html-eslint`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Linting HTML with `html-eslint`
```

> Today, I'm excited to share that [html-eslint](https://html-eslint.org) now provides an ESLint language plugin for linting HTML.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Today, I'm excited to share that [`html-eslint`](https://html-eslint.org) now provides an ESLint language plugin for linting HTML.
```

Would it be better to wrap `html-eslint` with backticks for consistency?

> The [`@html-eslint/eslint-plugin`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@html-eslint/eslint-plugin) plugin provides support for linting HTML code inside `.html` files. You can now configure HTML linting using ESLint's flat config and language plugin system. To get started, install it from npm:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`@html-eslint/eslint-plugin`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@html-eslint/eslint-plugin) package provides support for linting HTML code inside `.html` files. To get started, install it from npm:
```

```bash
npm install -D @html-eslint/eslint-plugin
```

Then update your configuration file:

```js

> import html from "@html-eslint/eslint-plugin";
> 
> export default [
>     // lint html files
>     {
>         files: ["**/*.html"],
>         plugins: {
>             html,
>         },
>         language: "html/html",
>         rules: {
>             "html/no-duplicate-class": "error",
>         }
>     }
> ]

Reviewer: Let's be sure to use the new `defineConfig()` helper here.
```suggestion
import { defineConfig } from "eslint/config";
import html from "@html-eslint/eslint-plugin";

export default defineConfig([
    // lint html files
    {
        files: ["**/*.html"],
        plugins: {
            html,
        },
        language: "html/html",
        rules: {
            "html/no-duplicate-class": "error",
        }
    }
]);
```

```

> The plugin includes a growing list of rules covering best practices, code styles, SEO and accessibility in HTML. You can find the list of supported rules [here](https://html-eslint.org/docs/rules).
> 
> Have an idea for a rule? [Open an issue](https://github.com/yeonjuan/html-eslint/issues).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugin includes a growing list of [rules](https://html-eslint.org/docs/rules)) covering best practices, code style, search engine optimization (SEO), and accessibility. (Have an idea for a rule? [Open an issue](https://github.com/yeonjuan/html-eslint/issues).)
```

> The plugin includes a growing list of [rules](https://html-eslint.org/docs/rules)) covering best practices, code style, search engine optimization (SEO), and accessibility. (Have an idea for a rule? [Open an issue](https://github.com/yeonjuan/html-eslint/issues).)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The plugin includes a growing list of [rules](https://html-eslint.org/docs/rules) covering best practices, code style, search engine optimization (SEO), and accessibility. (Have an idea for a rule? [Open an issue](https://github.com/yeonjuan/html-eslint/issues).
```

I think the `)` might be a mistake.

## Template engine syntax support

> Rather than using plain HTML, some projects use template engines like Handlebars, which introduce non-standard syntax such as {% raw %}`{{variable}}`{% endraw %}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rather than using plain HTML, some projects use template engines like [Handlebars](https://handlebarsjs.com/), which introduce non-standard syntax such as {% raw %}`{{variable}}`{% endraw %}.
```

> `html-eslint` is designed to offer support for custom syntax patterns used in popular template engines. This will allow users to configure html-eslint to tolerate these syntaxes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`html-eslint` is designed to offer support for custom syntax patterns used in popular template engines. This allows users to configure html-eslint to tolerate these syntaxes. Here's an example:
```

> ```js
> import html from "@html-eslint/eslint-plugin";
> 
> export default [
>     // lint html files
>     {
>         files: ["**/*.html"],
>         plugins: {
>             html,
>         },
>         language: "html/html",
>         languageOptions: {
>             // This tells the parser to treat {% raw %}{{ ... }}{% endraw %} as template syntax,
>             // so it won’t try to parse contents inside as regular HTML
>             templateEngineSyntax: {
>                 {% raw %}"{{": "}}"{% endraw %},
>             },
>         },
>         rules: {
>             "html/require-img-alt": "error"
>         }
>     }
> ]
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js
import { defineConfig } from "eslint/config";
import html from "@html-eslint/eslint-plugin";

export default defaultConfig([
    // lint html files
    {
        files: ["**/*.html"],
        plugins: {
            html,
        },
        language: "html/html",
        languageOptions: {
            // This tells the parser to treat {% raw %}{{ ... }}{% endraw %} as template syntax,
            // so it won’t try to parse contents inside as regular HTML
            templateEngineSyntax: {
                {% raw %}"{{": "}}"{% endraw %},
            },
        },
        rules: {
            "html/require-img-alt": "error"
        }
    }
]);
```
```

> ## Linting HTML code inside JavaScript Template Literal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Linting HTML code inside JavaScript template literals
```

In addition to standalone HTML files, `html-eslint` also supports linting HTML inside JavaScript and TypeScript template literals, such as:

```js
html`<div class="box">${content}</div>`;

// or

const code = /* html */ `<img class="image" src=${src}/>`;
```

This is especially useful when working with libraries like [Lit](https://lit.dev/), where HTML is commonly written inside tagged template literals.

> To enable this, you don’t need to set a language. Just apply `html-eslint` rules to your JavaScript or TypeScript files, and the plugin will detect and lint HTML within template literals.

Reviewer: This is really cool!

```js

> import html from "@html-eslint/eslint-plugin";
> 
> export default [
>     {
>         files: ["**/*.js", "**/*.ts"],
>         plugins: {
>             html,
>         },
>         rules: {
>             "html/require-img-alt": "error",
>         },
>     },
> ];

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { defineConfig } from "eslint/config";
import html from "@html-eslint/eslint-plugin";

export default defineConfig([
    {
        files: ["**/*.js", "**/*.ts"],
        plugins: {
            html,
        },
        rules: {
            "html/require-img-alt": "error",
        },
    },
]);
```
